# CS-340-Client-Server-Development

#### How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
In order to make a program that is maintainable I think you also have to make it readable. To do so you have to include good comments and clear/consistent naming conventions for classes, functions, variables. The naming of things in your project should make it so that another programmer can come in and be able to understand most if not all of the code in the program and be able to modify it for the situation without having to rewrite large portions of the code or break the program altogether. Changing the way you think about programming in general is what can help make your programs more adaptable. By thinking about programming in terms of general program types, as opposed to a specific project, you will be able to write code in a more general and adaptable way. Thinking about the CRUD Module I created for this project I would say that there are several things that I could change about it to make it more adaptable for use with other databases and be able to be inserted into other people's programs more easily. I think in future I would be able to make a few changes and additions to the CRUD module that would make it usable for me in future projects involving mongoDB and even just taking the various elements of the module and creating a new module for other database types. 


#### How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
Personally, I approach problems, in terms of computer science, by looking at what the end goal is and then breaking down the goal into sub-goals, or sub-tasks. From there I can make sure that each element works in a way that is most effective and user-friendly. In looking at this project, I understood the overall goal of taking the large database of information and making it more accessable to the end user in a way that would assist in their goal of finding animals that meet specific criteria, so in designing the dashboard for Grazioso Salvare I knew that i needed to include user-friendly and self-explanatory filtering options to allow new and experienced users to use the dashboard. My approach for this project didn't really differ from the way I have approached assignments in other courses but I would say that I did find a need to take the programming of this assignment in extremely small pieces and test the dashboard over every change. In future, to ensure that I am able to met client requests I would plan on meeting with the client several times to discuss what they expect the program to be able to do and be sure to ask specific questions about how they want the different elements in the program to function. 

#### What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientists help create solutions to various problems using technology. The work of a computer scientist on projects like this one can help people do their work better by removing the amount of data that the person needs to look through in order to find what they are looking for. This same concept can be applied to many other companies and the work they do. 
